[GitHub Desktop] Stashing changes feature (#3598)
github/docs: content/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/stashing-changes.md

---
title: Stashing changes
intro: You can temporarily save your changes without committing the changes to a branch by stashing the changes.
versions:
  free-pro-team: '*'
---

### About stashed changes

To apply your changes to your repository, you must save the files and then commit the changes to a branch. If you have saved changes that you are not ready to commit yet, you can stash the changes for later. When you stash changes, the changes are temporarily removed from the files and you can choose to restore or discard the changes later. You can only stash one set of changes at a time with {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}. If you use {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %} to stash changes, all unsaved changes will be stashed. After you stash changes on a branch, you can safely change branches or make other changes to your current branch.

> You can also stash changes when you switch branches. For more information, see "[Managing branches](/desktop/contributing-to-projects/managing-branches#switching-between-branches)."

Reviewer: "You can also stash changes when you switch branches" - I think this reads a little oddly because this falls within what you've described in the first paragraph, rather than being _another_ situation where you can stash. Maybe change this to something like:

```suggestion
A common situation where you might choose to stash your changes is when you want to switch branches, but you don't want to commit your changes yet. For more information about switching branches, see "[Managing branches](/desktop/contributing-to-projects/managing-branches#switching-between-branches)."
```

Author: I think what's unstated now is that if you have uncommitted changes and use Desktop to switch branches, the app will prompt you to save changes with a slightly different flow, which is described in the link. I'll make that a bit more clear and why it's being brought up in this article 👍

---
title: Stashing changes

> intro: You can stash changes to temporarily save them without committing them to a branch.

Reviewer 2: Starting with the "why" and ✂️ pronouns.

```suggestion
intro: You can temporarily save your changes without committing the changes to a branch by stashing the changing.
```

versions:
  free-pro-team: '*'
---

### About stashed changes

> You can view and make commits to any of your repository's branches. If you have uncommitted, saved changes, you'll need to decide what to do with your changes before you can switch branches. You can commit your changes on the current branch, stash your changes on the current branch, or bring the changes to your new branch. If you want to commit your changes on the current branch, follow the steps in "[Committing and reviewing changes to your project](/desktop/contributing-to-projects/committing-and-reviewing-changes-to-your-project)" before switching branches.
> 
> You can stash all uncommitted changes to temporarily save the changes without committing them, and then reapply the changes later. You can only stash one set of changes at a time with {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}. After you stash changes on a branch, you can safely change branches or make other changes to your current branch.

Reviewer 2: We often talk about committing as applying changes to a repository, so let's avoid using it to mean something else here. Desktop itself uses "restore" so let's use that for consistency.

The first paragraph should go back to the "Managing branches" article, IMO, under the "Switching between branches" heading.

```suggestion
To apply your changes to your repository, you must save the files and then commit the changes to a branch. If you have saved changes that you're not ready to commit yet, you can stash the changes for later. Stashing temporarily removes the changes from the files, but allows you to restore the changes later. You can only stash one set of changes at a time with {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}. After you stash changes on a branch, you can safely change branches or make other changes to your current branch.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's also clarify that you can only stash ALL the currently saved changes, and that it's not possible to stash a subset of changes. My first instinct was to test whether the latter was possible, as many things you can do to all changes (e.g., discard them), you can also do to individual files or even lines.

### Stashing changes

{% data reusables.desktop.click-changed-files-header %}
{% data reusables.desktop.click-stash-all-changes %}

### Switching between branches

{% tip %}

**Tip**: You can set a default behavior for switching branches in the **Advanced** settings. For more information, see "[Configuring basic settings](/desktop/getting-started-with-github-desktop/configuring-basic-settings)."

{% endtip %}

{% data reusables.desktop.current-branch-menu %}
{% data reusables.desktop.switching-between-branches %}
  ![List of branches in the repository](/assets/images/help/desktop/click-branch-in-drop-down-mac.png)
3. If you have saved, uncommitted changes, choose **Leave my changes** or **Bring my changes**, then click **Switch Branch**.
  ![Switch branch with changes options](/assets/images/help/desktop/stash-changes-options.png)

### Retrieving stashed changes

> To access changes you've stashed in another branch, switch back to the branch you stashed the changes in.

Reviewer 2: Because you can now stash changes without switching branches, let's not assume folks are starting on a different branch than where their stashed changes are. Instead, let's remove this sentence, then replace the first two steps with something more like "If you're not already on the branch where the changes are stashed..."

{% data reusables.desktop.current-branch-menu %}
{% data reusables.desktop.switching-between-branches %}
  ![List of branches in the repository](/assets/images/help/desktop/click-branch-in-drop-down-mac.png)
3. In the left sidebar, click **Stashed Changes**.
![Stashed changes option](/assets/images/help/desktop/stashed-changes.png)

> 4. To delete your stashed changes, click **Discard**, or to use your stashed changes, click **Restore**.

Reviewer 2: This is a procedure for _retrieving_ stashed changes, but we bury how to do that at the end of this step, and we also including deleting, which is not part of restoring at all. We have three options here:

1. Only discuss restoring and remove the part about deleting. We don't have to document deleting when it's obvious how to do so, and you could argue it is here.
2.  Rename the procedure more agnostically (e.g., "Managing stashed changes") and make the final step something like this this:
> Manage the stashed changes.
>  - To use your stashed changes...
>  - To delete your stashed changes... 
3. Two separate procedures, one for restoring and one for deleting. This is my personal preference.

[ref](https://github.com/github/docs-content-strategy/blob/main/content-design/models.md#procedural)
